Salem is a major city in Salem district, located on the banks of Thirumanimutharu river in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is located about 140 kilometres (87 mi) northwest of Tiruchirappalli, 170 kilometres (106 mi) northeast of Coimbatore, 206 kilometres (128 mi) southeast of Bangalore and about 340 kilometres (210 mi) southwest of the state capital, Chennai. Salem is the fifth largest urban agglomeration in the state by population and the fifth largest city in Tamil Nadu by area covering 124 km2 (48 sq mi)

The town and the surrounding hilly regions were part of the Chola dynasty and was part of the trade route with the Roman empire. It was later governed by Poligars, who built temples and forts in and around the city. It was part of the Vijayanagara empire before being captured by Hyder Ali during the early 18th century, after the Mysore-Madurai war. It was ceded to the British in 1768 and the area became part of the struggle between Kongu Nadu led by Dheeran Chinnamalai and the British.Salem became part of Salem district after independence in 1947.

Salem has six arterial roads:Salem is the headquarters of the Salem division of TNSTC. The city has two major bus stations: the MGR Integrated Bus Terminus in Meyyanur and the Town Bus Station (Old Bus Stand) in the town area. Intercity and interstate routes and private buses originate at the Central Bus Stand(New Bus Stand), and local buses originate at the Old Bus Stand.Salem Junction is an A-1 category ISO-14001 certified[101] railway junction located in Suramangalam area, 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) west of the city. In 2005, the Railway Board approved the creation of a Salem railway division from Palakkad and Tiruchirapalli divisions. It is the fourth-largest of the six Southern Railway zone divisions. Salem Airport (IATA SXV, ICAO VOSM) is located on the Salem-Bengaluru Highway (NH44) in Kamalapuram about 15 kilometres (9.3 mi) from the city. Airports Authority of India (AAI) opened the airport in 1993 for commercial operations

Manachanallur is a Town in Tiruchirappalli district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. Manachanallur is famous for an ancient temple, Sri Bhoominathar Temple of Lord Shiva.[1]As of 2011 India census,[2] Manachanallur had a population of 25,931.Manachanallur is well connected by road. The state highways SH62 pass through Manachanallur. There are regular buses to Thuraiyur. Manachanallur is also well connected to the neighbouring villages by mini buses. The nearest railway station and airport is located in Trichy, Manachanallur became a new assembly constituency of Tamil Nadu since the last elections